---
category: news
date: 2026-03-08
excerpt: Corpus Christi careens toward water catastrophe missteps, Corpus Christi
  careens toward water catastrophe City officials expect to reach a “water emergency”
  within months and run out of water next year. That would halt jet fue
layout: default
news_excerpt: true
source_name: Texas Tribune
source_url: https://www.texastribune.org/2026/03/08/texas-corpus-christi-water-crisis/
title: Corpus Christi careens toward water catastrophe
verified_at: 2026-03-08
---

Corpus Christi careens toward water catastrophe missteps, Corpus Christi careens toward water catastrophe City officials expect to reach a “water emergency” within months and run out of water next year. That would halt jet fuel deliveries to Texas airports, hike gas prices and trigger a local economic disaster without precedent, former officials say. By Dylan Baddour,&nbsp; Inside Climate News March 8, 2026, 5:00 a.m. Central Story Republish our articles for free, online or in print, under a Creative Commons license. window Republish this article Take our content — please! — You’re welcome to republish this article for free as long as you follow our republishing guidelines , which includes using our canonical URL and pixel tracker on your story pages whenever possible. After a decade of missteps, Corpus Christi careens toward water catastrophe by Inside Climate News, The Texas Tribune March 8, 2026 HTML Plain Text &lt;h1&gt;After a decade of missteps, Corpus Christi careens toward water catastrophe&lt;/h1&gt; &lt;p class=&quot;byline&quot;&gt;by Inside Climate News, The Texas Tribune &lt;br /&gt;March 8, 2026&lt;/p&gt; &lt;div class="wp-block-custom-everlit-iframe-embed"&gt;&lt;/div&gt; &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;&lt;em&gt;This story is published in partnership with &lt;a href="https://insideclimatenews.org/"&gt;Inside Climate News&lt;/a&gt;, a nonprofit, independent news organization that covers climate, energy and the environment. Sign up for the ICN newsletter &lt;a href="https://insideclimatenews.org/newsletter/"&gt;here.&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/em&gt;&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;CORPUS CHRISTI — The imminent depletion of water supplies in Corpus Christi threatens to cut off the flow of jet fuel to Texas airports and other oil exports from one of the nation’s largest petroleum ports, triggering potential shockwaves through energy markets in Texas and beyond.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Without significant rainfall, Corpus Christi is headed for a “water emergency” within months and total depletion of the system next year, according to the &lt;a href="https://www.corpuschristitx.gov/department-directory/corpus-christi-water/water-supply-dashboard-english/"&gt;city’s website&lt;/a&gt;. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“The impacts are going to be felt tremendously through the state, if not internationally,” said Sean Strawbridge, former CEO of the Port of Corpus Christi Authority, the nation’s top port for crude oil exports, in a 40-minute interview Thursday. “This should be no surprise to anybody. We were talking about this over a decade ago.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Other current and former officials, alarmed at what they call a lack of preparations, have suggested the potential for an economic crisis involving mass layoffs, disruption of fuel supplies and billions of dollars in emergency spending to avoid an evacuation of the city. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Strawbridge, who now lives in Houston, laid the blame on city leaders, citing “their lack of experience, their lack of knowledge, their lack of recognizing the risks” in a bumbling, decade-long endeavor to build a large seawater desalination plant that would veer the region off its clear course toward calamity.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“They’ve found themselves in quite a dire predicament as a result of those poor decisions," Strawbridge said. “Time is up.” &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;A spokesperson for Corpus Christi Mayor Paulette Guajardo declined interview requests, citing “prior commitments,” and did not respond to follow-up questions. City manager Peter Zanoni also did not respond to questions. Instead, Corpus Christi public information manager Robert Gonzales provided an emailed statement.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“The water shortage in the Coastal Bend is the result of a historic five-year drought,” it said. “Currently, the City of Corpus Christi has $1 billion in City Council-approved and funded water projects underway to address our water needs. The City remains committed to ensuring water security for the more than 500,000 residents and our commercial and industrial customers.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Depletion of this region’s reservoirs would lead to “controlled depression” for the local economy, “mass unemployment” and “industrial total shutdown,” according to a two-page report by Don Roach, former assistant general manager of the San Patricio Municipal Water District, which supplies many of the region’s large industrial water users.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;That includes refineries operated by Flint Hills Resources, Valero and Citgo that provide jet fuel to Texas airports and meet much of the state’s daily demand for gasoline.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“This waiting disaster is under the radar for the rest of the state,” said Roach, who worked 20 years at the water district and retired in 2014. “We hear nothing from the Texas politicians about the seriousness of the situation or any state plan to mitigate it.” &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;He no longer had access to current water data and contracts, he stressed, but produced the report based on his own knowledge. It said the costs of trucking in emergency water “would bankrupt many local small businesses and low-income households” while state emergency managers would need billions of dollars to “build emergency temporary pipelines or subsidize desalination barge rentals to prevent a total evacuation of the city.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Strawbridge, a former director of the Port of Long Beach, said Roach’s assessment was “spot on.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;figure class="wp-block-image alignwide size-full"&gt;&lt;img src="https://www.texastribune.org/wp-content/uploads/2026/03/20260303-CORPUS-WATER-CRISIS-ICN-BD-01.jpg" alt="" class="wp-image-223408" /&gt;&lt;figcaption class="wp-element-caption"&gt;Corpus Christi faces an imminent water crisis after a decade of city government failures, according to several former officials.&lt;/figcaption&gt;&lt;/figure&gt; &lt;h2 class="wp-block-heading"&gt;&lt;b&gt;“No time to panic”&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/h2&gt; &lt;p&gt;Zanoni, the city manager who has overseen Corpus Christi’s descent toward water depletion since 2019 and receives a $400,000 salary, rejected notions of imminent disaster during a &lt;a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xk78_9qLnaY"&gt;press conference&lt;/a&gt; Thursday, when Lake Corpus Christi, one of the city’s main reservoirs, dropped below 10%. The press conference took place three days after Inside Climate News asked the city for comment about the impending water crisis.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“I think we are going to get through this,” he told TV cameras as he stood before the dwindling remnants of the lake. “We have confidence in what we’re doing. This is no time to panic.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Zanoni, who holds a master’s of public administration from Florida State University, said the city had “worked tirelessly over the past months to bring everything that we humanly and possibly could to forgo what could be this supply and demand issue.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“Now we’re going to focus, with the city council and the region, on being prepared in case supply doesn’t meet demand,” he said. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“The best-case scenario, that assumes some level of rain, has this lake here going to about the early fall,” said Zanoni, who indicated that the summer months would give the city enough time to boot up its portfolio of new groundwater water projects.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;figure class="wp-block-image size-full"&gt;&lt;img src="https://www.texastribune.org/wp-content/uploads/2026/03/20260307-CORPUS-WATER-CRISIS-ICN-BD-07.jpg" alt="" class="wp-image-223409" /&gt;&lt;figcaption class="wp-element-caption"&gt;Corpus Christi City Manager Peter Zanoni at a press conference on March 5, 2026, when Lake Corpus Christi, one of the city’s main reservoirs, dropped below 10% full.&lt;/figcaption&gt;&lt;/figure&gt; &lt;p&gt;James Dodson, a former director of Corpus Christi’s water department who retired this year as a private consultant and was involved in several of those projects, disagreed. He said residents and officials “are crazy not to be panicking.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“It’s the very worst scenario that I’ve ever seen,” said Dodson, who oversaw a historic expansion of Corpus Christi’s water supply in the 1990s. “It’s going to be an economic disaster.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;For years, he said, the city dismissed repeated opportunities to develop groundwater import projects as it maintained a singular and fruitless focus on desalination. That includes projects that the city only recently scrambled to get started. Dodson doubted any will materialize in time.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“They’ve been kicking the can down the road for a long time and they’ve finally run out of road,” said a current regional water official who requested anonymity to preserve a working relationship with the city. "They’re looking at projects to do that they should have done five, six, seven years ago."&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;The last hope to avert disaster, the official said, was a 20- to 30-inch rainfall. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“It would basically have to be a hurricane,” he said.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;A spokesperson for Texas &lt;a href="https://directory.texastribune.org/greg-abbott/" id="https://directory.texastribune.org/greg-abbott/"&gt;Gov. Greg Abbott&lt;/a&gt;, Andrew Mahaleris, didn’t address specific comments about an impending water catastrophe or disruption of the state economy. In an emailed statement, he said: “Corpus Christi is an important economic driver not only for Texas but also the nation. The State of Texas has made significant investments into ensuring the Corpus Christi area has the water resources it needs to serve citizens and industry alike.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;He added that the governor “will continue working with the legislature to ensure Texans have a safe, reliable water supply for the next fifty years.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;h2 class="wp-block-heading"&gt;“I wouldn’t say that it’s a disaster”&lt;/h2&gt; &lt;p&gt;Mere months remain, according to Corpus Christi’s online &lt;a href="https://www.corpuschristitx.gov/department-directory/corpus-christi-water/water-supply-dashboard-english/"&gt;water dashboard&lt;/a&gt;, until the city enters a “Level 1 Emergency,” which begins 180 days from projected depletion of water supplies. Functional failure of the water system, or “dead pool,” will occur before total depletion. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;In a level one water emergency, the city’s plans call for an immediate 25% curtailment of water consumption. But city planners are only beginning to discuss what that would even look like and still haven’t determined how they would implement it.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“We can’t close and open everyone’s valves,” said Nick Winkelmann, chief operating officer of Corpus Christi Water, in an interview at city hall last week. “One way to enact water restrictions is through pricing.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;The region’s largest industrial users, which collectively consume the majority of the region’s water, remain exempt from emergency curtailment. These multi-billion-dollar refineries, petrochemical plants and liquified natural gas facilities are built to run at a steady rate and can’t simply throttle down production in accordance with water availability. They consume large volumes of water primarily in cooling towers to prevent excessive heating and explosions. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;figure class="wp-block-image size-full"&gt;&lt;img src="https://www.texastribune.org/wp-content/uploads/2026/03/20260304-CORPUS-WATER-CRISIS-ICN-BD-05.jpg" alt="" class="wp-image-223410" /&gt;&lt;figcaption class="wp-element-caption"&gt;Gulf Coast Growth Ventures, a plastics production facility operated by Exxon Mobil and Saudi Arabia's national oil company, started operations in 2022 and is the largest water consumer in the Corpus Christi region.&lt;/figcaption&gt;&lt;/figure&gt; &lt;p&gt;The city also may enact across-the-board, pro-rata curtailment at will, said Winkelmann, who assumed his role last September when the city’s former water director, Drew Molly, resigned days before the city council pulled the plug on its long-running desalination project. “That will have an effect on all our customers.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;For years, local business leaders insisted desalination was Corpus Christi’s key to overcoming the water limitations that had historically plagued it on this semi-arid coastline. Massive desalination plants, the first of their kind in Texas, were supposed to kick off an era of abundant water, financial prosperity and limitless economic expansion.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Instead, the plan drove this region to the precipice of ruin. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“It has not gone as smoothly as it should have,” said Bob Paulison, a member of the Texas Chemistry Council, director of the Coastal Bend Industries Association and architect of the desalination project. “There are a lot of reasons for why that happened.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;He said he worked on desalination for 12 years, but the projects got bogged down by political fights, administrative processes, the COVID pandemic and “a tug of war which has resulted in very slow progress.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“I wouldn’t say that it’s a disaster,” he said of the current situation, expressing faith that the city would complete new water projects before supplies run out. It was “too early” to assess when that could happen, he said. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;Presented with Roach’s report, Paulison expressed a longstanding respect for the veteran water manager and said, “It looks like it’s very dire, more dire than we’ve been looking at.”&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt;“We’re relying on the model that the city has put together,” Paulison said. &lt;/p&gt; &lt;p&gt; Regarding a potential shutdown of th

## Source Information

- **Source**: Texas Tribune
- **Original URL**: https://www.texastribune.org/2026/03/08/texas-corpus-christi-water-crisis/
- **Published**: 2026-03-08
- **Verified**: 2026-03-08

---